STEPS TO DO PRACTICAL:

Go to cloud 
 Console 
 Create project  
 Select project 
 Click on side bar 
 Api and services 
 Enabled api and service 
 Api library 
 Search "app engine admin api" 
 Click on enable 
 Activate cloud shell 
 Continue 
 Open in new window 
 Cloud shell command👇 
 "gcloud projects list" 
 Copy project id 
 gcloud config set project projectid 
 Search in new tab "google cloud platform github" 
 Get project form github and copy link 
 "git clone projectlink" 
 ls 
 cd python-docs-samples/ 
 ls 
 cd appengine/ 
 ls 
 cd standard_python3 
 ls 
 cd hello_world/ 
 python main.py 
 Ip address run kara

THEORY TO WRITE:

INTRDUCTION:
Google App Engine (GAE) is a platform as a service (PaaS) offering by Google that allows developers to build and deploy applications on Google's infrastructure. Here are the main points about Google App Engine:
GAE provides a fully managed platform for developing and hosting web applications, taking care of infrastructure management, scaling, and system administration tasks.
It supports multiple programming languages, including Java, Python, Node.js, Go, and more.
GAE offers automatic scaling and load balancing, ensuring that your application can handle varying traffic and scale seamlessly.
It provides built-in security features, including access control, firewall rules, and secure data storage options.
GAE integrates with other Google Cloud services, allowing you to leverage additional functionality like databases, storage, and machine learning.
Developing applications on GAE follows a serverless model, where you only pay for the resources your application consumes.
GAE offers development tools and SDKs to streamline the development and deployment process.
Steps to create a project and application on Google App Engine:

STEPS TO CREATE PROJECT:
Sign in to the Google Cloud Console (https://console.cloud.google.com/) using your Google account.
Create a new project in the Cloud Console, providing a name and project ID.
Enable the App Engine service for your project.
Install the necessary development tools, such as the Cloud SDK and App Engine SDK, on your local machine.
Develop your application code using the supported programming language and frameworks.
Configure your application by defining the app.yaml file, specifying runtime environment, scaling settings, and other parameters.
Test your application locally using the development server provided by the App Engine SDK.
Deploy your application to the App Engine by using the gcloud command-line tool or Cloud Console UI.
Monitor and manage your application's performance, logs, and traffic using the Cloud Console.